All right so in this video we're going to move from the post to pages.
OK.
Because right now if I go when I go to the About page you can see that it's formatted just like a post
which is definitely not what we want.
All right.
The pages we just want to have the title we don't want this meta data.
Read more stuff like that.
So to change that all we have to do is create a new file and save it as Page dot ph pick.
All right.
Now if I go back to that page and reload it's just a blank white page.
All right it's looking to this file to parse it.
And just to start with I'm going to grab what we have in the index page and pasted in here and just
change some stuff right.
So we want the while loop.
We're not going to use the get template part.
So we can get rid of that in each.
Yeah.
So what we want to do here is we want to Article tag and let's give this a class actually of page
right.
And let's put in H 2.
And this is where the title will go so say p p the title
and right under that will have content.
Ok really simple save it.
Let's go to the About page.
And now we have a very simple About page.
If we go to services uses the same format sample page uses the same format.
OK.
Now I want to show you that we can actually create page templates for certain pages.
All right.
So for instance let's take the About page.
If I go and I say new file save it as Page dash about DUP ph P say test.
I actually will say about save it and I go and reload.
We get a boat.
Now this isn't going to be on every page you can see Services shows up sample page.
It's only the about page.
OK so it's using the slog which is up in the you are L..
All right we could just as well say page services and that would work.
All right.
The reason you would do this is if you want something on the About page is that you don't want anywhere
else.
So if we just copy what's in page put it in here and then let's say we'll go right above the content
div of the class of well
we'll just put in company phone
and go back to about.
And I can see we have the company phone here.
All right.
It's not on services it's not on sample page or any other pages.
OK.
So you can do that.
But I think a better thing to do when you want to have specific styles or content on certain pages is
to use a template.
All right so I want to get rid of that.
I'm actually going to get rid of this whole page about file I just wanted to show you that that is possible
.
All right.
So we got rid of that.
Now what we'll do is create a template.
All right so let's create a new file and we're going to save it as company Dasch template dot Ph.
D.
All right.
And what we'll do is copy what we have in the page file.
Paste it right in there right now at the top.
We want to add a declaration or comment.
OK so actually this needs to be in the tags.
OK so what we want to do here is a template.
You name it and we'll call this company to lay out OK.
And all we want to do here is go right below the title and we're going to just put the phone number
but I'm going to put it in a paragraph tag with a class of phone and we'll put a 1 800 number.
OK save that.
And let's quickly just go into the style sheet and will add a style for for phone class.
Now this isn't probably something you wouldn't do but just to give you an example of that to show you
that you can have custom templates for certain pages.
All right so let's give it a background.
It's a border
adding
and we'll make it fold.
OK.
So what we want to do now that we have created is let's go into our post I'm sorry our pages and go
to about and then down here under template we can choose company lay out or update that reload and I
can see we have the phone I actually want to put some text in front of it though will say.
So they call us.
OK.
So if we go to services that doesn't have it OK because we didn't use that template.
But I actually do want it for services so simply go into services page and select company lay out.
So now that should also have the phone number.
So the next thing that I want to show you is how we can create a sub menu.
So what I mean by that is if we have let's say the About page and in under the About page we have child
pages.
All right which we do.
And back a couple of videos ago I put in fake Q And in our team under the About page k about is the
parent.
Now my goal is to on the About page have links for further child pages not just the About page but any
page that has a child.
I want them to show here.
All right.
So there's quite a few things we have to do to accomplish this.
So let's go to page ph P..
All right.
And I'm actually going to remove that company Leo from the about page.
OK so it shouldn't have the phone number anymore.
So in page pupae Let's go right under the article tag and we're going to say p p W.P. underscore
list pages.
All right.
So let's see what that does.
OK so what it did is it's listing all of the pages that we have on our WordPress site which obviously
isn't what we want and pay no attention to the style yet because we'll get to that after we get the
functionality.
We want to do is we only want to get the about page and it's children.
So what we will do is go read above that and let's say TGT.
And we're going to create a variable called args and we're going to set that to an array.
OK.
And we're going to say child of now there is no there is no core function to do this to get the parent
.
So we're going to actually create a function called Get top parent.
OK.
And then we also want to say tidal underscore ally and set that to nothing to hide.
I'll explain that in a bit but right now we get to put our get our eggs right in there.
If we go ahead and reload we're going to get an error because there's no function called Get top parent
.
So let's go into functions.
And let's go down to the bottom create a function called Get top parent.
OK we're going to make the post object available to us by saying global post.
OK and then we're going to say if so you mean to do that.
So if
post a post underscore parent
then we're going to create a variable called ancestors
and we're going to set that to get on the score and post underscore ancestors and then we just want
to pass in post
ID.
Right.
And then what we want to do is return
ancestors and we want the zero index
it then we want to go under that statement and say return post Id save it and if we go and reload now
you can see that we're only getting the children of the About page which is AFAIK you and our team.
Now we also want the about link to show up in here as well because we can go to the Ephie.
Q But we can't get back to about unless we use the main menu.
So let's go back to page ph P and we're going to go right here and we're going to create a UL right
which is going to and actually above the US we're going to have a Nav. and we're going to say now we're
going to give it a class of both Nav. and sub now of k and then that will end
right here.
OK.
So we'll have you well and then we'll have nav.
So under the well I want to put a span and we're going to give this a class of parent link.
And then in here we're going to have an eight chag
and that's going to go to PH P So
the permalink.
And what we need to do is pass in that get taught parent function here.
We're going to pass that in.
And then for the linked text say ph P echo the title.
All right.
And then we want to pass it in there as well.
Get taught parent
OK.
So if we save that and take a look now we get about this 15
.
All that's because instead of using just the permalink we want to get the permalink.
That should fix it
and fix it.
Echo get the permalink and all we want to do.
We did.
Oh and get the title.
That's right.
There we go.
So now we just have about and we can navigate with this menu.
OK.
Now this is all well and good but if we go to services are not services because that uses a custom template
but sample page or any other page.
It's going to still have this even though there's no child links.
So what we'll do is create another short function in the function start ph P file and we're going to
call this page is parent
Kerry.
And then let's do a global post and then we're going to set pages to get pages and and here we want
to say child under score of equals and then we're going to concatenate the post ID.
Right.
And then what we'll do is just say return and then we want the number of pages we're going to say return
count pages.
So if it's if it's more than 0 then it's we know that it's a parent right.
So let's go back and we're going to go right above them now
and we can put an if statement
and then that will.
And down below now.
OK so what we want this to say is we want page is the parent or post post underscore parent is greater
than zero.
OK so if there's if it's a parent or if there's any children then we're going to we're going to do this
.
I need my question mark here.
OK.
So let's save that and then go back to sample page.
And now that's gone.
But if we go all about it's still there.
K because it has these children these pages that are children.
So everything's working correctly now I just want to fix the display.
I want it to be over here and to look a little better.
So let's go to our style sheet
and let's see a sub now of actually you know where I'm going to paste this stuff in
because this is get this video is getting kind of long.
OK so we're floating the U L to the right.
The sub now of itself we just have some margin on the top of floating it to the right and setting it
to 300 pixels wide and then the parent link which in this case is about.
I want that to flow left and we want to make it black and also make it bold and add a border to the
right and then the link right here is saying the parent link will be black.
And here we're using this current page item because whatever page we're on we want that to be bold.
So let's save that and see what that looks like.
OK so you can see that we have our.
And if we go to F.A. Q That stays bold.
We go to our team that's bold.
All right so that looks a lot better and I think that's about it.
Oh I do want to clear the flow.
So what I'll do is I'm going to go under the nav and div class equals c o r and then we'll go to our
style sheet and let's add that taught S.R. and we'll say clear both.
OK so now it's above the title on the page.
All right so we did quite a bit in this video we went ahead and set up our pages.
I showed you how to create custom pages custom templates and also how to use how to create a sub navigation
.
All right so in the next video we're going to get into widgets